One way to improve the capacity [COUGH]
is obviously to get more spectrum.
As the demand for cellular telephones
was growing like a [COUGH] hockey stick,
FCC, Federal Communications Commission
in US, ITU,
the International Telecommunications
Union, and other national bodies were
avoiding more and
more spectrum for these services.
And so initially they started with
the 1G services in 800 MHz band and for
2G services there was another
their 120 MHz allocated and
additional 95MHz for 3G services and
the 4G and the 2.5 gigaherts band.
And as they deploy more and
more services they could put
a 3G service in what they were
originally using for 1G services.
So in the licensed banks,
the FCC allocates the spectrum
to the operators.
They get to control how
the spectrum is allocated to
each user In the system
as they are making calls.
This improves the spectral
efficiency significantly better.
And the spectrum actually
below 1,000 megahertz
is considered the beach front property
because of its propagation properties.
They penetrate through buildings and
obstacles much much better.
So you get much better coverage
in densely populated areas.
So the industry continues to look for
spectrum and
repurpose their usage for cell phones.
For instance,
the 700 megahertz bank that was used for
Analog TV before know people
are looking at how to leverage that for
advanced services,
voice and data services.